So now let's start taking a look at some of the cooler stuff that cotland has added for collections.
So we'll start with the filter function.
You can use it to select entries in a collection using a lambda expression as we've seen many times
before inside the lambda you can use it to refer to an entry in the collection.
So let's filter our set of events.
Now I've started a new project and I copied over some variables and the car class.
So we have a set of events here and we have an immutable map of cars and we're going to start by filtering
our set of events.
So what we're going to do is we'll keep on integers only.
So I'm going to say print line set and it's dot filter and then we went to lambda expression.
And we wanted to keep only odd integer so we'll say it Monch to is not equal to zero.
Because if you divide the integer by two and there is a remainder then it means it's an odd integer.
We've covered lambdas So you know what's going on.
And I'll just repeat it here.
Each entry in the set is substituted in for it.
And then if the lambda evaluates to TRUE or in this case we can say if the predicate is true then the
entry is added to the resulting set.
So let's run
and we'll see that we get the four odd entries in the set.
OK so now let's filter our map of cars so let's say we only want to 20:16 cars.
We know that we have one here.
So we'll say print line immutable map dot filter dot value this time because we want to filter based
on the value not based on the key.
And then a year equals 2016.
So let's run that and we'll see that our read forward makes it into the resulting map.
So now let's see what happens if we use filter on a mutable collection.
So I'm going to copy the amount
paste it down here and I'll call it this time mutable map and we'll just change this to mutable map.
So now we have a mutable map and this time let's filter the mutable map and we'll find cars that have
the color silver.
So we'll say mutable map dot filter.
We want to I-T that value dot color equals silver and then we'll print line print line the filtered
map is you map.
Let's run this
and we'll see that the map hasn't changed and I'm sure you were expecting that because we've done this
before so the filter function returns a new map it returns a new instance of the collection so it doesn't
operate on the collection directly.
Let me put a space in here.
OK so you can use filter to get it items you want based on a predicate expressed as a lambda.
Now another way of looking at it is that you can use filters to remove elements you don't want in the
collection but the elements themselves don't change.
OK so let's say we want to add 10 to every element in a collection.
And we want to put the results into a new instance.
Let me comment out what we have so far.
And then we'll save out in sequel's array and we'll give it one two three four five.
As you know arrays are collections in Katlin and then we'll save Val add 10 list and we'll make this
immutable list of int and we'll say that right now we just want it to be empty because we're going to
assign some values and we're going to do it by going for high in.
In essence that should be add 10 list.
Actually we're adding 10 not 20 so add 10 list dot add plus 10 and then we'll print line are at 10 list.
So what we're doing here is for each element in.
So we're adding 10 to it because I will be the element and then we're adding that to our new list and
we'll print the list.
So we expect to see 11 12 13 14 15 in 10 list so let's run and we get 11 12 13 14 and 15.
So we can create a mutable list and we have to tell the compiler to type in this case up here because
we're not providing any initial values.
Now there's an easier way of doing this rather than explicitly writing a loop when we want to do the
same thing to every element in the collection we can use the map function is kind of confusing because
there's a map collection.
There's also a map function that can act on any type of collection.
So let's rewrite our code to use map.
So instead of doing all this stuff here we're going to comment this out and instead we'll say a vowel
at 10 list equals its dot map I-T plus 10 and then we'll print Arliss
.
So let's run.
And we expect to see the same results and we do.
So what we're doing here I'm sure you can tell by now is for each item in our ints array.
We're going to add 10 to it.
The Each item will be substituted for it and then we add 10 and the resulting values are added to our
list.
The map function returns a collection.
So why don't we print the Java class to see what type of collection we got here.
And we'll see that we got a list.
So we've got an array list here.
So that's how you can do everything the same operation to every element in a collection.
All right so let's go back to our cars for a minute.
So I'm going to uncomment our cars
and let's say that we want to create a collection that contains all the years for our cars.
So we want a collection that contains 2015 2016 in 2013.
So basically we want to extract the your property for all of our cars in our collection.
Well we can use map because basically what we're saying here is we want to do the same operation on
every element so we can say print line immutable map dot map and this time we just want the year.
So we want to create a collection that contains the your property for every element in our original
list.
So if we run now
we'll see that we get 2015 2016 and 2013.
So that's an easy way to just extract one property for every element in a collection.
Now it gets better than this.
You can of course change filter and map calls together.
So let's add a couple of other cars to our list.
Right now we've got these three cars.
Let's go ahead and let's say we'll map the case 17 to car.
That's red.
And it's a BMW.
And let's say it's 2015 and we'll have one more car and we'll use the key eight for this one.
And this car is green.
It's a Ford and it has the year 2010.
So now we want to get a collection that has the colors of all the Ford cars.
So in this case we have one Ford that's red and one Ford that's green.
So we want to get these two colors.
So let's do the filtering part first.
So we'll say print line immutable map filter.
And in this case we want the model to be Ford because we want to get all the colors for all the Ford
cars.
So if we run
we didn't get anything because I have a typo here so let me remove the last blank and we'll run again
and now we get our two Ford cars.
So now let's change a map.
Call to the filter call because now we want to get the color property for the cars that pass through
the filter.
So we'll just come here and let me make another line and we'll say dot map and now we want the dot value
dot color.
And now let's run that
and we'll see now that we just have a list with red and green.
So what's happening here is we're first filtering the cars.
We only want Ford cars and then on the resulting items that pass the filter.
We then extract the color property.
And so we end up with red and green.
Now let's say we want to see if all the elements in a collection match a condition.
So to do that we can use the all function.
So what we're going to do is we're going to look at our cars and we're going to see if all of the cars
in our list are kind of modern newish cars and we're going to consider newish to be the year 2015 and
greater for our purposes so we're going to do print line will say immutable car Emap dot all and then
we have our Lamda it doth value da year is greater than 2014.
So this is saying that we want to see if all the cars in the collection match the condition that we
have here.
Now we know the answer is going to be no because we have a 2013 car and a 2010 car in our collection
and they're going to return false.
So when we run
we'll see false.
Now let's say we don't care whether all the cars match we just want to know if any of the cars match.
So it's you know it's perfectly fine if there's only one newish car in here.
Well in that case we use the any function.
So we'll just change that to any.
And in this case we're saying if at least one car matches this predicate we want we want true returned.
So let's run.
And now we'll see.
True.
So you use all one you want every item in the collection to match and you and you use any if it's you
just want to see if anything matches.
But now that we know that some cars match perhaps are interested in well how many newish cars are in
the collection and for that we're going to use the Count function.
So let me copy this line here
and this time we're just going to print out the counts so we'll say count here.
And then what this is going to do is it's going to count how many items in the collection meet this
requirement and we expect 3 to be returned.
So let's run and sure enough we see that three cars have a year greater than 2014.
All right so now let's find the first newish car in the collection.
Now if you were working with a list we could use the Find function.
So what we're going to do is we'll get all the values from the map into a list and then we'll call find
on the list.
So we'll do the following.
All say.
Cars equals and we'll say immutable map dot values.
So now we have a list of all the values all the cars in the cars variable.
So now we can go ahead and use the Find function on our cars list.
So we'll see a print line.
Cars stopped fine and we'll open up a Lamda and will say I-T year is greater than 2014.
So the Find function finds the first item in the list that satisfies the condition and then it stops.
So we don't get a collection from find we get one single item.
It'll be the first item that satisfies this condition.
So let's go ahead and run
and we'll see that the first car that's newish is the green Toyota with a year of 2015.
And of course that's what it is our green Toyota.
So now let's use our list to use the group by function to group cars according to some criteria.
For example let's say we wanted to group cars based on color.
Well let's do that so we'll do the following.
We'll say print line Orange Line cars dot group buy.
And then we'll open up a Lamda and we want to group the items in our list by color.
So let's run and we'll see that we now have our cars grouped by color.
And this is in a map now.
So we'll see that we have for the key of green.
We have our two green cars for the key of red we have our two red cars.
And then finally we have a silver car.
So now let's go back to our map for a second.
No what I'm about to do will also work for less.
And you can sort maps by key using this sorted by function.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So here I'm going to say print line mutable map.
Got two sorted map sort of map.
So let's go ahead and run
and we'll see that right at the top.
We're now sorted by key we have key 1 2 and 3.
And then we have key 8 followed by key 17 so the map has now been sorted by key.
But as I said You can also sort a list so let's go down to our list of cars I can find it.
Here it is.
And let's sort our cars by year.
So the same print line cars got sorted by.
And we'll have to say what we want to sort by and we want to sort by ear.
So let's go ahead and run that and now we'll see that our form.
This is the list I'm looking at here.
This one will see that our forward 2010 comes first followed by our 2013 Honda our 2015 Toyota and our
2015 BMW.
And then our 2016 Ford.
So we have cars sorted by year.
Now there are many more functions that provide convenient ways to work on collections and I'll leave
it up to you to play around with the collections classes now.
You can check the Katlin documentation or you can just go into intelligence and create a collection
and start looking at the functions that you can call on that collection.
Play around and experiment.
So next we're going to take a look at sequences.
I'll see you in the next video.